- [Man] Within JSF, we can use the facelets tag library,
to introduce templating within our application.
This is useful because we can avoid repeating
common markup within every page.
So, to get started, just right click on the web app folder,
and then go to new, other,
and then here we're going to create a new XHTML page,
we're going to name that page template,
and then we'll just hit next,
and instead of picking the blank facelet page,
we'll select the common facelet page
to build out our template, and then just hit finish.
You'll notice we're using the older DOCTYPE,
so let's go grab out HTML5 DOCTYPE,
and we're going to paste that at the top of our file,
okay, and now let's take a closer look at our template.
So, if we inspect the template,
you're going to see these insert tags,
that are facelets tags,
and basically this is saying that
you can define a page title,
and insert the content within the template
from a page that leverages the template.
You'll also notice we have a page header, as well as a body.
So, let's go over to our form facelet,
and here we're going to set it up
to leverage our new template,
and then we use the ui:define tag,
that's part of the facelets tag library,
in order to define our body,
and then you just surround the content that you would like
placed within the body section of the template,
using the ui:define tag.
So, another thing that we saw was that
there was a page header on there,
so let's go ahead and we can specify a page header,
let's make sure we got that correct, yep okay,
and here we can build out another piece of content
that we would like to place within our template.
So, we're going to do this a little bit differently,
we're going to define a resource bundle,
which can be used by JSF.
To do that, I'm going to create a new package
within my source main Java folder,
I'm going to name that package resources,
and then inside of that resources package,
I'm just going to add a file,
and I'm going to call it messages.properties,
so there you can see our properties file,
and if we head over to the source for that file,
here we can define key value pairs that can be leveraged
using the expression language within JSF.
So, I'm going to add a property named form.pageTitle,
and we'll just set that properties value to catalog form,
and then we'll add another property list.pageTitle,
which we'll set to catalog, and then from here,
we go back to our template.xhtml file,
and you'll notice we have this loadBundle tag,
which is also a facelets tag,
and that needs to point to our properties file.
So, we set the basename attribute,
and you can see we're benefiting from IntelliSense there,
and basically we're assigning all of those properties
to this variable msg.
So, let's go back over to our form,
and then within the form we can leverage
our resource bundle by creating an expression,
and then we use the msg variable name,
and then we reference the property,
so that was the form.PageTitle property,
and then we just close out our expression, okay.
So, there we've set up our form to use our page template,
we're providing some content from our resource bundle,
let's go ahead and add this as well to our last page,
so I'm just going to copy all of this,
go over to the list, and then we can add that in,
we'll need to switch up the property
we're referencing within that resource bundle,
and then we're also going to need to
close out our define tag for the body, okay.
So, both pages set up to use templates,
we got the resource bundle content,
let's make sure everything is saved,
and then we're going to go ahead
and run this application on our server,
we'll see it fire up here,
and then I'm just going to head over to Chrome,
where I have things bookmarked.
Now, you can see we get some styling from the template,
let's add another product name,
this time we'll say skis, we go ahead, we submit,
there we see we go to the list page,
which also has the markup and the styling of our template.
So, that was a look at how we can use some of the
templating features within the facelets tag library.